# note

Note is a note-taking application built in React as a part of a project for Vanderbilt University's Coding Bootcamp.

Note's frontend is coded in React but uses API calls to a NodeJS/Express backend in order to store note data using MongoDB. You can see the repo for that [here](https://github.com/pawptart/node-backend).

### Some things *note* can do:

* Create, edit, and delete notes
* Create and delete custom tags for each note
* Store notes in a database

Note uses the [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to simplify API calls to the database.

---

## Calling the API

Note uses a publicly available interface and does not require user authentication. Anyone can post, change, or delete notes at any time. The API accepts JSON only in the request body.

You can find the base URL at: ```https://note-api-node.herokuapp.com/api```.

### API calls for notes

See below for an example of a note entry in the database:

```
[
    {
        "_id": "5d030052a85866001ef93b2d",
        "title": "Hi there Github!",
        "content": "Welcome to the API Docs!"
    },
    {
        "_id": "5cff12bdb16cad31dc802d55",
        "title": "Hey, this isn't a test!",
        "content": "Everything appears to be working now!",
        "tags": [
            {
                "name": "awesome",
                "id": "1560477823616"
            }
        ]
    }
]
```

#### Retrieve a list of notes ```GET: /notes``` 

*Retrieves an array of all notes in the database.* 

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
\_id | Unique note identifier generated by MongoDB. *ObjectID*
title | The title of the note. *String*
content | The message of the note. *String*
tags | List of tags associated with the note. *Array*

#### Create a new note ```POST: /notes/create``` 

*Creates a new note in the database*

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
title \**Required* | The title of the note. *String*
content \**Required* | The message of the note. *String*

#### Delete a note ```DELETE: /notes/delete/{id}```

*Removes a note from the database. Also removes all associated tags.*

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
id \**Required* | The note ID, expressed as an ObjectID. See Mongo docs for details [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/). *ObjectId*

#### Edit a note ```UPDATE: /notes/update/:{id}```

*Updates an existing note with new parameters*

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
id \**Required* | The note ID, expressed as an ObjectID. See Mongo docs for details [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/). *ObjectId*
title \**Required* | The new title of the note. *String*
content \**Required* | The new content of the note. *String*

Existing tags will not be changed. 

#### Retrieve a single note by ID ```GET: /notes/{id}```

*Retrieve a single note by ID`

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
id \**Required* | The note ID, expressed as an ObjectID. See Mongo docs for details [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/). *ObjectId*

### API calls for tags

#### Create a new tag ```POST: /api/notes/{noteId}/tags/create```

*Add a tag to an existing note*

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
id \**Required* | The note ID, expressed as an ObjectID. See Mongo docs for details [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/). *ObjectId*
name \**Required* | The tag name. *String*

#### Delete a tag ```DELETE: /api/notes/{noteId}/tags/delete/{tagId}```

*Delete an existing tag from a note*

**Parameters** | **Description**
---|---
noteId \**Required* | The note ID, expressed as an ObjectID. See Mongo docs for details [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/ObjectId/). *ObjectId*
tagId \**Required* | The unique tag ID. *String*

